EXERCISES

1. What data types do each of these values represent?
    1. "A Clockword Orange" - String
    2. 42 - integer
    3. 09/02/1945 integer-date
    4. 98.7 float
    5. $15.99 float-currency

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A: Use a text file when data needs to be read.  Use a database when you are storing a lot of data and when there will be a frequent amount of deletions, additions and edits to this data.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

A:  SQL is a declarative language rather than a procedural language.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

A: Databases are made up of cells which are the cross-section of columns and rows.  Each cell holds a value or "data".  Rows are horizontal and contain bits of data for a particular record with a key value that allows access to column-stored data.  Columns contain the same type of data element defined by the header.

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A: A table is the structure in which a database is displayed with columns(vertical) which define what the data represents and rows(horizontal) that make up a complete conceptual unit.  A value lies in a cell that holds some piece of information that the column name describes.

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

A: Integer, Float and String

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:
SELECT date, amount
FROM payments;

SELECT amount
FROM payments
WHERE amount > 500;

SELECT *
FROM payments
WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

A: 1. English translation: From the payments table give me all payments dates payments were made and the corresponding amounts.
   2. English translation: From the payments table give me all payment amounts that are larger than 500.
   3. English translation: From the payments table give me all payments that the payee is Mega Foods.

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:
The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
A:
SELECT email, signup date
FROM users
WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data'

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
A:
SELECT userid
FROM users
WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
A:
SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE userid = 4
